Project Management Key Concepts

Major Goal of a Project

Satisfy a customer’s need

Primary Function of Project Management

Balancing trade-offs between time, cost, and performance

True Statement About a Project

A project is not routine work

Example of a Program

Launching a chain of restaurants

Planning Stage

Level of effort increases, and plans are developed to determine what the project will entail, schedule, beneficiaries, quality, and budget

Answer: planning

Definition of a Project

A temporary endeavor undertaken to create a unique product, service, or result

Answer: project

Balancing Time, Cost, and Performance

A good project manager must manage trade-offs between the three to satisfy the customer

Projects vs. Routine Work

Projects: writing a term paper, setting up a sales kiosk for a meeting, developing a supply-chain system

Routine Work: taking class notes, responding to supply-chain requests, attaching tags on a manufactured product

Program Definition

A group of related projects designed to accomplish a common goal over an extended period of time

Answer: program

Execution Stage

In this stage, the physical product is produced

Answer: executing / execution

Question: Unlike much organizational work, projects typically:

Answer: require the combined efforts of a variety of specialists.

Question: Which of the following should a project manager allow their customers to do?

Answer: Request changes to the project scope 
Question: Which of the following is one of the primary functions of project management?

Answer: Balancing trade-offs between time, cost, and performance ✅

Question: Project managers are ultimately ___ for the performance of a project.

Answer: responsible ✅

Question: Which of the following statements is true of a project?

Answer: A project is not routine work ✅

Question: In project management, the term program would best fit which of the following examples?

Answer: Launching a chain of restaurants ✅

Question: Which of the following statements are typical of most project life cycles?

Answer:

Different stages will see different amounts of effort during the project ✅

Project planning is done throughout most of a project's life ✅

Question: The role/title "project manager" carries with it many responsibilities, including:

Answer:

Coordinating project team members that often have competing or different priorities ✅

Meeting customer expectations ✅
Ultimate responsibility for project success ✅

Question: Project management is no longer considered a special-need management tool; thus, learning project management skills is personally useful because:

Answer: The skills and tools are easily transferable ✅

Question: How does a project scope statement help a project team?

Answer: It provides clarity on the purpose of the project ✅

Question: Fundamentally, Agile PM employs an incremental, iterative process sometimes referred to as a "___" approach to complete projects.

Answer: rolling-wave ✅

Sociocultural:

Leadership ✅

Teamwork ✅

Negotiation ✅

Politics ✅

Customer expectations ✅

Problem solving ✅

Technical:

Scope ✅

Schedules ✅

Resource allocation ✅

Baseline budgets ✅

Question: The ___ stage includes three activities: delivering the project product to the customer, redeploying project resources, and conducting a post-project review.

Answer: closing ✅

Question: Why is it important for a project team member to understand a customer's priorities?

Answer: Because it allows a team member to make independent decisions to achieve project goals ✅

Question: ___ methodologies emerged out of frustration with using traditional project management processes to develop software.

Answer: Agile ✅

Question: Project management requires knowledge of which of the following technical project management skills?

Answer:

Developing a work breakdown structure ✅

Developing a project scope ✅

Question: Identify the necessary sociocultural skills for project managers.

Answer:

Managing corporate politics ✅

Managing customer communication and expectations ✅

Motivating project team members ✅